feat(curriculum): add fruit search useEffect workshop (#59544)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/workshop-fruit-search-app/6813f4dc94d4a31c5702f594.md

---
id: 6813f4dc94d4a31c5702f594
title: Step 19
challengeType: 0
dashedName: step-19
---

# --description--

> You should update the state by calling `setResults` and passing in the result of mapping `data` to extract only the `name` property from each fruit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should update the results state by calling `setResults` and passing in an array that contains only the `name` property from each fruit in the `data` array. You can use the `map()` method for this.
```

  <script
    data-plugins="transform-modules-umd"
    type="text/babel"
    data-presets="react"
    data-type="module"
  >
    import { FruitsSearch } from './index.jsx';
    ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(<FruitsSearch />);
  </script>
</body>
</html>
```

```css
body {
  font-family: Arial, sans-serif;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  height: 100vh;
  background-color: #f4f4f4;
}

#search-container {
  text-align: center;
  background: white;
  padding: 20px;
  border-radius: 10px;
  box-shadow: 0 0 10px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
}

#search-input {
  padding: 10px;
  width: 80%;
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  border-radius: 5px;
  margin-bottom: 10px;
}

#results {
  text-align: left;
  max-height: 150px;
  overflow-y: auto;
}
.result-item {
  padding: 5px;
  border-bottom: 1px solid #ddd;
}
```

```jsx
const { useState, useEffect } = React;

export function FruitsSearch() {
  const [query, setQuery] = useState('');
  const [results, setResults] = useState([]);

  function handleSubmit(e) {
    e.preventDefault();
  }

  useEffect(() => {
    if (query.trim() === '') {
      setResults([]);
      return;
    }

> --fcc-editable-region--

Reviewer: add space so campers know to where to write their code 

```js
--fcc-editable-region--
    const timeoutId = setTimeout(async () => {
      try {
        const response = await fetch(`https://fruit-search.freecodecamp.rocks/api/fruits?q=${query}`);
        const data = await response.json();
        
      } catch {}
    }, 700);
  }, [query]);
--fcc-editable-region--
```
